Do more with an IRS account Access your tax information with an Individual, Business or Tax Pro Account Refund status Tax records Payments Notifications Create accountSign in Where’s my refund? Two ways to check IRS account Check your refund, tax records and more. Sign in Refund tracker Enter your SSN, filing status and refund amount on your return. No sign in. Use refund tracker How can we help you? Get your tax records and transcripts Make a payment Explore free filing options Find forms & instructions Get an identity protection PIN Check Your Federal Tax Withholding Apply for an Employer ID Number (EIN) Check your amended return status Use our tax help tools Tools & applications IRS Free File Prepare and file your federal income taxes online for free. Try IRS Free File Your Account Access your individual, business or tax pro account. Go to your account Where's My Refund? Find the status of your last return and check on your refund. Check your refund status Document Upload Tool Upload documents in response to an IRS notice or letter. Submit requested files Taxpayer Assistance Center Locator Find your local office and see what services are available. Extended hours during tax season. Contact your local IRS Office News & announcements Trump Accounts for children Working Families Tax Cuts permits Trump Accounts to be established for American children. Find out more Steps to take now to get a jump on your taxes Get informed before filing your 2025 tax return. Get ready now IRS Free File File your taxes for free online with IRS partner tax software Learn how to file for free One, Big, Beautiful Bill The One, Big, Beautiful Bill has a significant effect on federal taxes, credits and deductions. Learn more about the bill Free tax preparation Get free one-on-one tax preparation help nationwide if you qualify Find a site near you Scams and schemes alerts Find the latest information on trending scams and schemes Get the latest updates National Taxpayer Advocate - Annual Report to Congress The report details most serious problems, most litigated Issues, and more. See the 2025 report