Get in-person help at a local IRS Taxpayer Assistance Center. Find a center near you and call for an appointment for priority service. Find a Taxpayer Assistance Center office IRS offices are closed on federal holidays. Prepare for your appointment - Call to schedule your appointment ahead of time. - Bring these items with you: - A current government-issued photo ID. Two original forms of ID, including a current government-issued photo ID and, if filed, a copy of the tax return for the year in question. - Please see acceptable forms of ID below. - A driver’s license - State identification card - Passport - Social Security card - Tribal membership document - Note: A tribal membership card is not a federally issued ID. Currently, the Bureau of Indian Affairs is not involved with which individuals the various tribes chose to recognize as members. There is also no uniform procedure amongst the tribes to verify a member’s identity. Those cards can be an additional form of ID but they are not a valid alternative to a driver’s license or passport. - Car title - Voter registration card - Mortgage statement - Lease agreement for rental domicile - Utility bill with current address - Birth certificate - School records (Under the age of 14 and/or students only up to the age 24) - A taxpayer identification number, such as a Social Security number or ITIN. - Any supporting tax documents you’ll need. - Please don’t bring: - Food or drinks - Cameras - Weapons - To apply for an individual taxpayer identification number (ITIN) or renew an ITIN, have your documents ready. - Please be prepared to substantiate any claims for refundable credits. Check the eligibility for any credits claimed PDF (in Spanish PDF) for more information. - Protect yourself and others: Look up your community on the CDC COVID Data Tracker. - If you feel ill, please reschedule your appointment. - Please silence your cell phone during your appointment. Get faster service You can get help with most tax issues online or by phone. On IRS.gov you can: - Set up a payment plan - Get a transcript of your tax return - Make a payment - Check on your refund - Find answers to many of your tax questions - File your tax return online - View your account information - Find out where to file your return - Get help preparing your taxes by volunteers SSA-1099 tax form Get an instant replacement when you open a free my Social Security account.