If you find a mistake after filing your taxes, you may need to amend your return. To see if you should file an amended return: answer these questions on the Should I file an amended return? page. Check on an amended return Check the status of an amended return Reasons to amend a return File an amended return if there's a change in your: - Filing status - Income - Deductions - Credits - Dependents - Tax liability You don't need to amend your return if we: - Let you know that we corrected errors on your return. - Accept your return without certain forms or schedules or ask you to send them. When to file an amended return Generally, to claim a refund, you must file an amended return within 3 years after the date you filed your original return or 2 years after the date you paid the tax, whichever is later. If you filed early, count from the April tax deadline. Special rules apply to file for refunds when you have net operating losses, foreign tax credits, bad debts, and other issues. You may have more time to amend for: - A federally declared disaster - Service in a combat zone or contingency operation - A bad debt or worthless security - A foreign tax credit or deduction - A loss or credit carryback Find details on when to file an amended return How to file an amended return To amend a return, file Form 1040-X, Amended U.S. Individual Income Tax Return. You can use tax software to electronically file your 1040-X online. - Submit a complete amended Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, with your changes, for the return year you are amending; and - Attach any supporting documents and new or changed forms and schedules. If you use a tax preparer who files electronically, file Form 8879, IRS e-file Signature Authorization with your 1040-X. You can file up to 3 amended returns for the same year. Amend your return on paper if either: - earlier in the current year you filed the original return on paper and for a prior tax year - Example: You filed your original return on paper for tax year 2023 in February 2025 and need to amend the return. - the return is for tax year 2021 or before. Get your refund on your amended return If you amend a return for tax years 2021 and later, you can request your refund by direct deposit. Enter your bank account information on the electronically filed Form 1040-X or corrected Form 1040-SS/PR. If you submitted a paper version of Form 1040-X, you'll receive a paper check. You can also attach Form 8888, Allocation of Refund (Including Savings Bond Purchases) PDF to deposit your refund to multiple bank accounts. You can't use refunds from amended returns to buy savings bonds. If you owe tax Mail a check or money order payable to United States Treasury with Form 1040-V, Payment Voucher PDF. If you owe additional tax, file your amended return, and pay the tax by the April due date to avoid penalties and interest. Your return will replace your original return. If you file after the April due date, don't include any interest or penalties on your amended return. We'll make any needed adjustments automatically. State tax returns If you change your federal return, it may affect your state tax liability. For information on how to correct your state tax return, contact your state tax agency. Don't attach your state tax return to your amended return.