An identity protection PIN (IP PIN) is a six-digit number that prevents someone else from filing a tax return using your Social Security number (SSN) or individual taxpayer identification number (ITIN). The IP PIN is known only to you and the IRS. It helps us verify your identity when you file your electronic or paper tax return. If you don't already have an IP PIN, you may get an IP PIN as a proactive step to protect yourself from tax-related identity theft, even if you are not required to file a tax return. Who is eligible to get an IP PIN Anyone who has an SSN or individual taxpayer identification number (ITIN) and is able to verify his/her identity is eligible to enroll into the IP PIN program. Parents and legal guardians can also request an IP PIN for dependents. How to get an IP PIN - The fastest way to receive an IP PIN is to request one through your online account, in the IP PIN section of your profile page. If you don’t already have an account on IRS.gov, you must register to validate your identity. Note: If you or your dependent are under age 18 and would like to request an IP PIN, you must use one of the alternative enrollment options. If you can’t enroll online If you want an IP PIN but can’t successfully establish an online account, there are alternatives. Note: Using an alternative method to the online account takes longer for an IP PIN to be assigned to you. If your adjusted gross income on your last filed return is below $84,000 for Individuals or $168,000 for married filing joint and you can’t establish an online account, you can submit Form 15227, Application for an Identity Protection Personal Identification Number online. You must have: - A valid Social Security number or individual taxpayer identification number. - An adjusted gross income on your last filed return is below $84,000 for Individuals or $168,000 for married filing joint. - Access to a telephone. We will use the telephone number provided on the Form 15227 to call you and validate your identity. Once we verify your identity, you will receive your IP PIN via the U.S. Postal Service usually within four to six weeks. You will then receive your IP PIN annually through the mail. If you’re unable to verify your identity online or with the Form 15227 process or you are ineligible to file Form 15227, you may make an appointment for an in-person meeting at a local Taxpayer Assistance Center. If you enroll in-person for an IP PIN, you will need to bring: - One form of federal or state issued picture identification. - One additional form of identification. If you enroll in-person for an IP PIN for a dependent you will need to bring: - One form of federal or state issued picture identification and one additional form of identification for yourself. - Two forms of identification for your dependent such as a birth certificate and social security card. A full list of acceptable documents that can be used to prove your or your dependent’s identity is available on the IP PIN FAQ page question #4 and question #5. Once we verify your identity, you will receive your IP PIN via the U.S. Postal Service usually within three weeks. You will then receive your IP PIN annually through the mail. Important information about IP PINs - An IP PIN is valid for one calendar year. - A new IP PIN is generated each year for your account. - If the IRS enrolled you into the IP PIN program due to being a confirmed victim of tax-related identity theft, we’ll mail you a CP01A Notice with your new IP PIN each year. - Once you have opted in and obtained an IP PIN online, you will need to retrieve your IP PIN online each calendar year as a CP01A Notice will not be mailed. - The IP PIN is generally available in your online account starting in mid-January through mid-November. - Logging back into your online account, will display your current IP PIN through the Profile Tab. - An IP PIN must be used when filing any federal tax returns during the year including prior year returns. - FAQs about the identity protection personal identification number (IP PIN) Using an IP PIN to file Enter the six-digit IP PIN when prompted by your tax software product or provide it to your trusted tax professional preparing your tax return. The IP PIN is used only on Forms 1040, 1040-NR, 1040-PR, 1040-SR, and 1040-SS. Correct IP PINs must be entered on electronic and paper tax returns to avoid rejections and delays. An incorrect or missing IP PIN will result in the rejection of your e-filed return or a delay of your paper return until it can be verified. Don’t reveal your IP PIN to anyone. It should be known only to your tax professional and only when you are ready to sign and submit your return. The IRS will never ask for your IP PIN. Phone calls, emails or texts asking for your IP PIN are scams. Lost IP PINs Review Retrieve your IP PIN for details. Do not file a Form 15227 to apply for a new IP PIN.