In this series: How to file your taxes: step by step Check if you need to file Gather your documents Get credits and deductions File your return Get your refund Pay taxes on time Be ready to file taxes next year When to file your taxes The tax deadline for 2025 tax returns is April 15, 2026. You may have more time to file if: - You were affected by a federally-declared disaster. - On the due date, you’re living out of the country or a military member stationed in or supporting work for a designated combat zone. Find your deadlines if you file on a fiscal year. Find help if you need more time to file or pay. Ways to file for free Free File - If your adjusted gross income is $89,000 or less. If higher, you can use Free File Fillable Forms. Free tax services for military and veterans IRS-certified volunteers – If you earn $69,000 or less, have a disability, are 60 years or older or need language support. Other ways to file Tax professional - Choose an IRS-approved tax professional. Paper forms - You can file with paper forms and mail them to the IRS. - If you have wages, file Form 1040, U.S. Individual Income Tax Return or Form 1040-SR, U.S. Income Tax Return for Seniors. - If you have a business or side income, file Form 1040 with a Schedule C. Tax preparation software - Use tax preparation software of your choice to file your taxes electronically or on paper. If you need more time to file or pay If you need more time, you must request an extension by the April filing deadline. Filing later may add penalties. If you file an extension, you must still pay taxes you owe by the deadline. Paying later adds interest and penalties. If you can't pay, get help with tax debt. Tax changes for this year Record these numbers When you file your return, record these numbers so you can check your refund, e-file next year or get tax information during the year: - Your exact refund amount - Your adjusted gross income You can also find these numbers after we process your return in your online account. File for prior years If you haven't filed a past-due tax return, you can file a tax return for any prior year. Get credits and deductions Get your refund Related File your taxes for free Let us help you Contact your local office Avoid Tax Scams Social Security: Fraud prevention and reporting Protect yourself from Social Security scams