Use this tool to get an EIN directly from the IRS in minutes for free. Answer questions and submit the application. If it’s approved, we’ll issue your EIN immediately online. Beware of websites that charge for an EIN. You never have to pay a fee for an EIN. How it works - Complete the application in one session. You can't save it for later. - It expires after 15 minutes of inactivity, and you’ll need to start over. - Print your EIN confirmation letter for your records. Who can use this tool Use this if: - Your principal place of business is in the U.S. or U.S. territories. - You're the responsible party in control of the entity or its authorized representative. - You have the responsible party’s Social Security or individual taxpayer ID number (ITIN). You can't use this: - If your principal place of business is outside the U.S. Apply by phone, fax or mail. - To apply with an EIN. Only government entities may apply with an EIN. What you need - Your business entity type. - The Social Security number or taxpayer ID number of the responsible party in control of your business or organization. - If you’re a third-party designee, you must have signed authorization to apply. Get an EIN Get your EIN straight from the IRS in minutes. Availability This tool is available during the following times (Eastern Time): - Mon–Fri: 6:00 a.m. – 1:00 a.m. (next day) - Sat: 6:00 a.m. – 9:00 p.m. - Sun: 6:00 p.m. – 12:00 a.m. Daily limit You can apply for only 1 EIN per responsible party per day. When to get an EIN If you are forming a legal entity (LLC, partnership, corporation or tax exempt organization), form your entity through your state before you apply for an EIN. If you don’t form your entity with your state first, your EIN application may be delayed. Businesses, organizations and some retirement trusts need an EIN to manage their taxes. Generally you need an EIN to: - Hire employees - Operate a partnership or corporation - Pay sales and excise taxes - Change business structures or ownership - Administer certain trusts, retirement plans and estates Once you get an EIN, you must file required tax returns or information returns. If you have an existing EIN, see when to get a new EIN. Other ways to apply If you can't apply online, find out how to apply by phone, fax or mail. Report beneficial owners to FinCEN when required Some corporations, limited liability companies, and other entities may be required to report information on beneficial owners (the people who ultimately own or control the company) to the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN). Find out if you must report beneficial owners.