You can access your personal tax records online or by mail, including transcripts of past tax returns, tax account information, wage and income statements, and verification of non-filing letters. If you need a transcript for your business, find out how to get a business tax transcript. Access tax records and transcripts in your Individual Online Account You can view your tax records in your Individual Online Account. This is the fastest, easiest way to: - View, print or download your transcripts - Find out how much you owe - Look at your payment history - See your prior year adjusted gross income (AGI) - View other tax records - Information return documents to assist in filing your claims Sign in to your online account Note: The method you used to file your tax return (e-file or paper) and whether you had a balance due affects your current year transcript availability. Alternative to getting a transcript online We recommend getting a transcript online since that’s the fastest method. If you’re unable to register, you can get a tax return or tax account transcript mailed to you instead. What you need To get a transcript mailed to you, you need your mailing address from your latest return. What you get - Tax return or tax account transcript types delivered by mail - Transcripts that arrive in 5 to 10 calendar days at the address we have on file for you You can also request a transcript be mailed to you by calling our automated phone transcript service at 800-908-9946. For more information, visit our Transcripts services for individuals - FAQs. If you're trying to get a transcript to complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA), refer to Tax information for student financial aid applications. Note: Transcripts partially mask your personally identifiable information to protect you. Financial data will remain fully visible to allow for tax preparation, tax representation or income verification. Learn more at About tax transcripts. If you need a photocopy of your return, submit Form 4506, Request for Copy of Tax Return. Caution: The IRS doesn’t initiate contact with taxpayers by email, text messages or social media channels to request personal or financial information. Visit Report phishing for instructions if you're unsure about the authenticity of any unsolicited communication you receive, other than U.S. mail, claiming to be from the IRS. Publications - About Form 4506-T – Offers all transcript types delivered by mail. - About Form 4506-T-EZ – Offers only the tax return transcript delivered by mail.